[bitnami/*] Create a TESTING.md document (#41416)
bitnami/containers: TESTING.md

Some examples of the suitability of tests for the `bitnami/wordpress` container:

* ✅ Checking Apache config added in Wordpress' postunpack stage
* ❌ Manually finishing the container initialization to run functional tests
* ✅ Checking the image filesystem (created dirs existence, changed permissions, etc) related to the compilation/postunpack stages
* ❌ Verifying bash logic performed at `libwordpress.sh`, as we'll run Goss before that logic is executed
* ✅ Testing binaries' existence and usability

Something of note is the equality of scope for the whole container catalog. Though some apps do not require additional containers to run and can be fully initialised as they are, we will be using the same testing setup for every container.

### Runtime parameters

> As of now, and linking with the scope definition we saw previously, the `runtime_parameters` field is only used to "stop" a container initialization logic after its `postunpack` has been executed. The `runtime_parameters` value is a base64 encoded string going by `command: ["tail", "-f", "/dev/null"]` and is the same for every VIB pipeline defined in `bitnami/containers`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of now, and linking with the scope definition we saw previously, the `runtime_parameters` field is only used to "stop" a container's initialization logic after its `postunpack` has been executed. The `runtime_parameters` value is a base64 encoded string going by `command: ["tail", "-f", "/dev/null"]` and is the same for every VIB pipeline defined in `bitnami/containers`.
```

#### Composition

There are instances where it is not needed to create custom tests for a given app, where using the templates will suffice. There will also be suites that may require the use of testing files to properly verify the app. Generally, a test suite can be composed of the following files:

```bash
.vib/java/goss
├── goss.yaml
├── java.yaml
├── testfiles
│   └── HelloTest.jar
└── vars.yaml
```

* [ ] The optional `app.yaml` file is where custom tests created just for the related app verification are included.
* [ ] The `goss.yaml` file should include the list of used GOSS templates as well as the `app.yaml` file (if necessary).
* [ ] The `vars.yaml` file should include every variable used in the templates.
* [ ] The `testfiles` folder should include any external files used in the `app.yaml` tests.

Not every suite will be composed of the same tests, as it will depend on the type of application, its Dockerfile, and the used compilation/configuration logic. The list below details each pillar that should be checked when creating a test suite as well as when to use some of the most common templates:

* Dockerfile check:

>   * Does it include nami modules which contain binaries? If so, use the `check-binaries.yaml` GOSS template.

Reviewer: I don't think this terminology is as clear as to us for external contributors. 

```suggestion
  * Does it include bitnami sub-modules which contain binaries? If so, use the `check-binaries.yaml` GOSS template.
```

Author: You are right, I'll change this to the one we actually use nowadays; _bitnami components_.

>   * Does it include the ca-certificates package? If so, use the `check-ca-certificates.yaml` template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Does it include the `ca-certificates` package? If so, use the `check-ca-certificates.yaml` template.
```

  * `check-linked.libraries.yaml`
  * `check-broken-symlinks.yaml`
  * `check-sed-in-place.yaml`
  * `check-spdx.yaml`
* Final checks:
  * When possible, NO per-branch tests are used.
  * Every GOSS template is included in `goss.yaml` and the needed vars are in place.

### Specific GOSS acceptance criteria

* [ ] No distro-specific tests are included.
* [ ] Prioritise using the tests included in the templates over creating custom tests.
* [ ] Due to GOSS limitations, there can't be two tests with the same name or checking the same file/directory. In those cases, only one of them will be run.
* [ ] For clarity purposes, the vars needed for the GOSS templates shouldn't be used in the custom tests at `app.yaml`.
* [ ] Tests should not rely on system packages (e.g. `curl`). Favor built-in GOSS primitives instead.
* [ ] Prefer checking the exit status of a command rather than looking for a specific output. This will avoid most of the potential flakiness.

### Run GOSS locally

Sometimes it is of interest to run the tests locally, for example during development. Though there may be different approaches, you may follow the steps below to execute the tests locally:

> 1. Download the [GOSS binary for Linux AMD64](https://github.com/goss-org/goss/releases/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the [GOSS binary for Linux](https://github.com/goss-org/goss/releases/)
```

Author: Good catch, I'll also modify the `amd64`reference below.

Let's take a look at an example and try to understand it!

```json
{
  "context": {
    "resources": {
      "url": "{SHA_ARCHIVE}",
      "path": "{VIB_ENV_PATH}"
    },
    "runtime_parameters": "Y29tbWFuZDogWyJ0YWlsIiwgIi1mIiwgIi9kZXYvbnVsbCJd"
  },
  ...
  "phases": {
    ...
    "verify": {
      "actions": [
        {
          "action_id": "goss",
          "params": {
            "resources": {
              "path": "/.vib"
            },
            "tests_file": "wordpress/goss/goss.yaml",
            "vars_file": "wordpress/goss/vars.yaml",
            "remote": {
              "pod": {
                "workload": "deploy-wordpress"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "action_id": "trivy",
          "params": {
            "threshold": "CRITICAL",
            "vuln_type": [
              "OS"
            ]
          }
        },
        ...
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

This guide will focus on the `verify` phase section, of which there are some things to remark on:

> * For the testing of containers, VIB will take the built container in the previous `package` phase and include it in a basic Helm chart template composed of a deployment and service template. Beware VIB will only be taking into account the docker image `ENTRYPOINT/CMD` command of the image. Consequently, this both simplifies and limits the configurability of the template chart and container image tested underneath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For the testing of containers, VIB will take the container built in the previous `package` phase and include it in a basic Helm chart template composed of a deployment and service template. Beware VIB will only be taking into account the docker image `ENTRYPOINT/CMD` command of the image. Consequently, this both simplifies and limits the configurability of the template chart and container image tested underneath.
```

> * For the testing of containers, VIB will take the built container in the previous `package` phase and include it in a basic Helm chart template composed of a deployment and service template. Beware VIB will only be taking into account the docker image `ENTRYPOINT/CMD` command of the image. Consequently, this both simplifies and limits the configurability of the template chart and container image tested underneath.

Reviewer: I'd separate this into two points: one that explains that a chart template is used and another one for the entrypoint.

```suggestion
* For the testing of containers, VIB will take the built container in the previous `package` phase and include it in a basic Helm chart template composed of a deployment and service template. 

* VIB does only allow to modify the `ENTRYPOINT/CMD` of the image (through `runtime_parameters`). Consequently, this both simplifies and limits the configurability of the template chart and container image tested underneath.
```

* A container's testing phase will usually include a single `goss` testing action, followed by additional security-related actions.

### vib-verify.json vs vib-publish.json

> Going back to what we explained in the introduction, two different events will trigger the test's execution. The following two files are associated with those events respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Going back to what we explained in the introduction, two different events will trigger the tests's execution. The following two files are associated with those events respectively:
```

* The `vib-verify.json` pipeline definition file will be used to verify the changes proposed in a PR.
* The `vib-publish.json` file will instead define the pipeline launched when the proposed changes are merged to `main`.

> Both files define what VIB should do when they are triggered and thus tweaking the files allows to define different action policies depending on the event that was fired. Nevertheless, it was decided that the verification process should be identical in both cases. Therefore, the `verify` section in `vib-verify.json` and `vib-verify.json` files must coincide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both files define what VIB should do when they are triggered and thus tweaking them allows to define different action policies depending on the event that was fired. Nevertheless, it was decided that the verification process should be identical in both cases. Therefore, the `verify` section in `vib-verify.json` and `vib-verify.json` files must coincide.
```
